## 06a: Controlled Components

- Form fields in React are either "controlled" or "uncontrolled"
- By default, fields are "uncontrolled". This means that React is not
  controlling the value of the field. The user types into the field and
  whatever they type is the value (just like any HTML form made in the last 25
  years). It's "uncontrolled" because React is not controlling the value.

- By contrast, if we do a `onChange` event for the field and take what the user
  types and turn that into state, then we take the state and put that back into
  the field's value prop, then you can say React is controlling the value. Now
  it's a "controlled" field. Even though it might seem as though the user is
  still controlling the value, React _could_ adjust, format, or change the value
  if we program it to do so. So it's really React that's controlling the value
  the user sees.

- Pros and Cons:

  - Uncontrolled fields are easier to setup because you just type `<input />`
    and you're done. Whereas with controlled you have to setup the `onChange`
    and `value` props for the field so that state orchestrates the value of the
    field.
  - Uncontrolled fields give you less abilities. If you need something else
    to set the value of the field (like the Recent Posts Dropdown menu in our
    case), then we can't use uncontrolled. Also, if we want to read the value of
    an uncontrolled field (for form submissions), then we have to figure out a
    way to read the DOM (probably with refs) whereas controlled fields already
    have their stateful values ready for us.

- Docs: https://reactjs.org/docs/uncontrolled-components.html



